from 2000 to 2017

Language: en

Size corpus: 65

url:
https://api.archives-ouvertes.fr/search/?fl=title_s,en_keyword_s,abstract_s&fq=producedDateY_i:[2000 TO 2017]&fq=language_s:en&rows=100

[[0, "Partnerships, relationships and associated initiatives \u2014 Towards a strategic plan for DARIAHDARIAH Infrastructure Human sciences This report is a subjective attempt to provide an overview of the environmental factors that may impact on developing a strategy for the future of DARIAH. To this end, we revisit the core objectives of DARIAH and use this analysis to better understand how DARIAH may be further integrated in a rapidly evolving European context."], [1, "Superspace description of trigonal and orthorhombic A1+xAx'B1-xO3 compounds as modulated layered structures; application to the refinement of trigonal Sr6Rh5O15Superspace-group descriptions Trigonal compounds Orthorhombic compounds Modulated layered structures The structures of the trigonal compounds A_{1+x}A_x^{'}B_{1-x}O_3 are described, to a first approximation, as a hexagonal close-packed stacking of A_3O_9 and A_3A^{'}O_6 layers. However, quantitative analyses are usually performed in superspace, with the structures considered as modulated composites made of two subsystems: chains of A cations, and columns of trigonal prisms, A^{'}O_6, and octahedra, BO_6. It is demonstrated that an alternative superspace description as a single modulated structure can be found in terms of the aforementioned layers, with a composition-dependent modulation parameter and discontinuous atomic domains. In this approach, these compounds fulfill layer-stacking rules analogous to those observed in other layered compounds. These rules translate into a so-called closeness condition for the discontinuous atomic domains in superspace; this condition is analogous to that postulated in quasicrystals. Both superspace models, the composite and the layered model, when considered without displacive modulations, can be taken as two limiting idealized paradigms and can be used as the starting point of a structure refinement. As an example, the structure of the trigonal phase Sr_6Rh_5O_{15}, which was previously refined as a modulated composite [Stitzer, El Abed et al. (2001), J. Am. Chem. Soc. 123, 8790-8796], has been refined anew, with equivalent results, as a single modulated structure taking as reference the ideal layered structure..."], [2, "Localization for the random displacement modelWe prove spectral and dynamical localization for the multi-dimensional random displacement model near the bottom of its spectrum by showing that the approach through multiscale analysis is applicable. In particular, we show that a previously known Lifshitz tail bound can be extended to our setting and prove a new Wegner estimate. A key tool is given by a quantitative form of a property of a related single-site Neumann problem which can be described as ''bubbles tend to the corners''."], [3, "A contact identification tool for assembly/disassembly simulationContacts identification Assembly/disassembly Simulations of Assembly/Disassembly (A/D) processes covers a large range of objectives, i.e. A/D sequencing, path finding, ergonomic analysis. This paper deals with a simulation framework for A/D analysis based on a new simulation preparation process allowing to address up to two types of shape representations (B-Rep NURBS and polyhedral), thus handling efficiently the configurations where 3D shape representations of assemblies play a key role. The simulation preparation process is illustrated by some specific steps allowing the automatic identification of the contacts for a 3D product model. Their corresponding list is after then described. During the identification process, three major stages of the framework are detailed: model tessellation, surface merging and contacts identification."], [4, "Agents intelligents de l'internet: enjeux \u00e9conomiques et soci\u00e9tauxLe terme agent intelligent d\u00e9signe dans l'usage sp\u00e9cialis\u00e9 de la veille un outil de recherche. Il correspond \u00e0 un logiciel de type m\u00e9tamoteur comportant de multiples fonctionnalit\u00e9s de recherche et de traitement de l'information. Or, depuis quelques ann\u00e9es, les moteurs de recherche ont int\u00e9gr\u00e9 la technologie agent pour devenir de v\u00e9ritables syst\u00e8mes multi-agents et ont conquis le march\u00e9 de la recherche informationnelle. Ces derniers permettent de r\u00e9duire l'entropie du Web et ils commencent \u00e0 apporter des solutions au probl\u00e8me de la surcharge d'informations sur le disque dur de l'utilisateur. En effet, de nouveaux syst\u00e8mes capables d'indexer le Net et le disque de l'internaute sont disponibles. Ainsi devraient \u00e9merger des outils complets d'indexation et de traitement de l'information. Si cette technologie comporte bien des avantages pour l'utilisateur, elle pose des probl\u00e8mes de confidentialit\u00e9 et pr\u00e9sente des dangers de faire na\u00eetre une soci\u00e9t\u00e9 sous constante surveillance. Malgr\u00e9 ces risques de d\u00e9rapage, la technologie agent devrait mettre \u00e0 la port\u00e9e de tous les hommes et femmes l'\u00e9norme documentation de l'humanit\u00e9, \u00e0 la fois litt\u00e9raire et scientifique, sous forme de biblioth\u00e8que universelle. Par ailleurs, la convergence des moteurs de recherche et de la t\u00e9l\u00e9phonie mobile devrait donner un pouvoir accru aux consommateurs. Nous avons pos\u00e9 comme hypoth\u00e8se directrice que les moteurs de recherche ont incorpor\u00e9 les fonctionnalit\u00e9s autrefois associ\u00e9es aux logiciels agents. Ils \u00e9tendent leurs technologies sur le PC de l'usager. Ainsi les agents int\u00e9gr\u00e9s dans les moteurs ou portails contribuent \u00e0 g\u00e9rer les \u00e9volutions \u00e9conomiques et soci\u00e9tales d'Internet. Notre hypoth\u00e8se a \u00e9t\u00e9 valid\u00e9e \u00e0 partir de l'observation des usages et des utilisateurs et de l'analyse des documents scientifiques du domaine. Nous avons propos\u00e9 un mod\u00e8le \u00e0 la fois explicatif du succ\u00e8s du moteur de recherche Google et pr\u00e9dictif des \u00e9volutions possibles. Il nous reste \u00e0 suivre les d\u00e9veloppements des interfaces sp\u00e9cialis\u00e9es et des probl\u00e8mes relatifs \u00e0 la pr\u00e9sence des moteurs sur le disque de l'usager."], [5, "A new synthesis approach for non-uniform filters in the log-scale: proof of conceptWe describe theoretically and give the proof of a new way to synthesize filters that are linear in the log--log scale in the frequency domain and are especially appropriate to filter non-uniformly sampled data, and take advantage of a very low number of signal samples and filter coefficients. This approach leads to a summation formula which plays the same role as the discrete convolution for usual finite impulse response filters."], [6, "Polarization switching in VCSELs induced by optical injectionRate equation Optical injection Vertical cavity laser Dichroism Linear polarization Polarized beams Experimental study Surface emitting lasers Semiconductor lasers Injection locking Spin flip Photoinduced effect In this paper we summarize our recent theoretical and experimental results concerning optical injection in VCSELs. First, we develop phenomenological rate equation model for the normalized photon densities of the two fundamental VCSEL modes with orthogonal linear polarization when injecting external light polarized along the direction of polarization of the nonlazing mode. We then perform a simple analytical analysis of optically induced polarization switching in VCSELs, which takes into account both the current-dependent linear dichroism and the nonlinear dichroism. We also present detailed investigation of polarization dynamics induced by optical injection using an alternative rate equation model for VCSELs which takes into account the microscopic spin-flip processes in the active medium. In particular we predict that two injection locked solutions may coexist: the first one exhibits the polarization of the master laser, while the second one corresponds to an elliptically polarized injection locking. Continuation techniques allow us to find the bifurcation scenario leading to such an elliptically locked state. We also report on our first experimental results on polarization switching and injection locking for the case of an orthogonal optical injection in VCSELs and demonstrate rich dynamical behavior. The polarization switching is accompanied by a cascade of bifurcations to timeperiodic and possibly chaotic dynamics. Our experimental results show evidence of a period doubling route to chaos."], [7, "Singular limit of a competition-diffusion system with large interspecific interactionSpatial~segregation Free boundary problem Competition-diffusion system Singular limit problem We consider a competition-diffusion system for two competing species; the density of the first species satisfies a parabolic equation together with a inhomogeneous Dirichlet boundary condition whereas the second one either satisfies a parabolic equation with a homogeneous Neumann boundary condition, or an ordinary differential equation. Under the situation where the two species spatially segregate as the interspecific competition rate becomes large, we show that the resulting limit problem turns out to be a free boundary problem. We focus on the singular limit of the interspecific reaction term, which involves a measure located on the free boundary."], [8, "Volatility dynamicsImplied volatility Stochastic volatility Stochastic implied volatility Asymptotics Calibration Hedging Smile Asymptotic Chaos Expansions ACE We establish asymptotic links between two classes of stochastic volatility models describing the same derivative market : - a generic stochastic instantaneous volatility (SInsV) model, whose SDE system is a formal Wiener chaos without any specified state variable. - a sliding stochastic implied volatility (SImpV) class, another market model describing explicitly the joint dynamics of the underlying and of the associated European option surface. Each of these connections is achieved by layer, between a group of SInsV coefficients and set of (static and dynamic) SImpV differentials. The asymptotic approach leads to these cross-differentials being taken at the zero-expiry, At-The-Money point. We progress from a simple single-underlying and bi-dimensional setup, first to a multi-dimensional configuration, and then to a term-structure framework. We expose the structural modelling constraints and the asymmetry between the direct problem (from SInsV to SImpV) and the inverse one. We show that this Asymptotic Chaos Expansion (ACE) methodology is a powerful tool for model design and analysis. Focusing on local volatility models and their extensions, we compare ACE with the literature and exhibit a systematic bias in Gatheral's heuristics. In the multi-dimensional context we focus on stochastic-weights baskets, for which ACE provides intuitive results underlining the embedded induction. In the interest rates environment, we derive the first layer of smile descriptors for caplets, swaptions and bond options, within both a SV-HJM and a SV-LMM framework. Also, we prove that ACE can be automated for generic models, at any order, without formal calculus. The interest this algorithm is demonstrated by computing manually the 2nd and 3rd layers, in a generic bi-dimensional SInsV model. We present the applicative potential of ACE for calibration, pricing, hedging or relative value purposes, illustrated with numerical tests on the CEV-SABR model."], [9, "From intraorganizational struggle to cooperation between organisational professionsOrganisational order has been described as the outcome of an intraorganizational struggle (Fligstein, 1987), a conflict between organisational professions (Armstrong, 1985). However, most studies illustrate the victory of the financial rationale, other professional groups trying in vain to resist change. Little attention has been given to the coexistence that could exist between several rationales. And yet the struggle between professional groups may last. We try to illustrate this through an analysis of management control practices that we observed during an ethnographic study of a French industrial firm. In this company, two groups oppose each other, following divergent rationales and supporting competing styles of accountability (Ahrens, 1996). They lay claim to a shared overarching objective but have conflicting positions and legitimizing discourses around what that should mean. We thus describe the forms of confrontation between the two groups, showing how several individuals attempt to redefine the style of accountability in their company. More than power or domination, however, these competitive groups seek to find a way to live with each other. This narrative will allow us to show how struggles and conflicts translate into negotiation and co-operation."], [10, "Comparison of buried and implanted tunnel junction as current confinement schemes for the realisation of single transverse mode large diameter (50\u00b5m) 1.55\u00b5m InP-based electrically-pumped VECSELsWe compared buried (BTJ) and ion implanted tunnel junction (ITJ) as current confinement schemes for 1550nm \u00bd-VCSELs. Reduced thermal resistance is obtained for BJT, but reduced current crowding is evidenced for ITJ. Singletransverse mode laser emission is obtained from large diameters devices."], [11, "Carleman estimates for semi-discrete parabolic operators with a discontinuous diffusion coefficient and application to controllabilityIn the discrete setting of one-dimensional finite-differences we prove a Carleman estimate for a semi-discretization of the parabolic operator $\\partial_t-\\partial_x (c\\partial_x )$ where the diffusion coefficient $c$ has a jump. As a consequence of this Carleman estimate, we deduce consistent null-controllability results for classes of semi-linear parabolic equations."], [12, "K-Fibonacci sequences and minimal winning quota in Parsimonious gameFibonacci polynomials Homogeneous weighted majority games Parsimonious games Minimal winning quota K-Fibonacci sequence Fibonacci polynomials Parsimonious games are a subset of constant sum homogeneous weighted majority games unequivocally described by their free type representation vector. We show that the minimal winning quota of parsimonious games satisfies a second order, linear, homogeneous, finite difference equation with nonconstant coefficients except for uniform games. We provide the solution of such an equation which may be thought as the generalized version of the polynomial expansion of a proper k-Fibonacci sequence. In addition we show that the minimal winning quota is a symmetric function of the representation vector; exploiting this property it is straightforward to prove that twin Parsimonious games, i.e. a couple of games whose free type representations are each other symmetric, share the same minimal winning quota."], [13, "Rollover avoidance of Heavy Vehicles Using Sliding Mode Observer-ControllerLe but du travail pr\u00e9sent\u00e9 ici consiste \u00e0 mettre au point un syst\u00e8me actif d'assistance \u00e0 la conduite du chauffeur pour \u00e9viter le renversement du poids lourd. Un estimateur bas\u00e9 sur l'observateur \u00e0 modes glissants est d\u00e9velopp\u00e9 pour estimer les dynamiques du v\u00e9hicule. L'acc\u00e9l\u00e9ration lat\u00e9rale limite est alors estim\u00e9e et la position et la vitesse lat\u00e9rales sont contr\u00f4l\u00e9es afin d'\u00e9viter le renversement du v\u00e9hicule. Quelques r\u00e9sultats de simulations sont donn\u00e9s pour montrer la robustesse et la qualit\u00e9 de ce dispositif."], [14, "Fast polygonal approximation of digital curvesIn this paper, we have extended the approach defined in \"Debled-Rennesson et al, Segmentation of discrete curves into fuzzy segments,IWCIA'03\" to a multiorder analysis. The approach is based on the arithmetical definition of discrete lines with variable thickness. We provide a framework to analyse a digital curve at different levels of thickness. The extremities points of a segment provided at a high resolution are tracked at lower resolution in order to refine their location. The high resolution level is automatically defined from the stability of the number of segments between two consecutive levels. The method is threshold-free and automatically provides a partitioning of a digital curve into its meaningful parts."], [15, "Medical ultrasound image reconstruction using distributed compressive samplingThis paper investigates ultrasound (US) radiofrequency (RF) signal recovery using the distributed compressed sampling framework. The \u201ccorrelation\u201d between the RF signals forming a RF image is exploited by assuming that they have the same sparse support in the 1D Fourier transform, with different coefficient values. The method is evaluated using an experimental US image. The results obtained are shown to improve a previously proposed recovery method, where the correlation between RF signals was taken into account by assuming the 2D Fourier transform of the RF image sparse."], [16, "Dimensional Analysis and Weak TurbulenceGravity-capillary waves Dimensional analysis Wave turbulence In the study of weakly turbulent wave systems possessing incomplete self-similarity it is possible to use dimensional arguments to derive the scaling exponents of the Kolmogorov-Zakharov spectra, provided the order of the resonant wave interactions responsible for nonlinear energy transfer is known. Furthermore one can easily derive conditions for the breakdown of the weak turbulence approximation. It is found that for incompletely self-similar systems dominated by three wave interactions, the weak turbulence approximation usually cannot break down at small scales. It follows that such systems cannot exhibit small scale intermittency. For systems dominated by four wave interactions, the incomplete self-similarity property implies that the scaling of the interaction coefficient depends only on the physical dimension of the system. These results are used to build a complete picture of the scaling properties of the surface wave problem where both gravity and surface tension play a role. We argue that, for large values of the energy flux, there should be two weakly turbulent scaling regions matched together via a region of strongly nonlinear turbulence."], [17, "Permanent settlement analysis of ballasted railway tracks - Dynamical approachRailway track Trains Ballast High speeds -experiment Reduced scale Dynamics Finite elements Elastic linear modeling Settlement The study of ballasted railway tracks behaviour under moving trains at high speeds is one of the most important researches in the domain of transport. Due to repeated passage of trains at high speeds, differential settlements are observed in the longitudinal direction of the railway track. These settlements depend on the platform quality, the rolling speed and the dynamical behaviour of the track. They can threaten the comfort and the security of passengers and need high costs of maintenance in order to return the track into its initial position. In order to progress in understanding the phenomenon of settlement, a reduced scale experiment of three sleepers is proposed. Sleepers are submitted into analytical forces of shape M by hydraulic jacks representing loads due to the passage of boogies. This experiment allows to measure several parameters such as displacements, accelerations and stresses in the embankment. It is modelled by the finite element method with linear elastic behaviours and two different zones of ballast (compacted and non compacted). Numerical results are determined by three-dimensional modeling and then compared to the experimental ones. The essential aim of this experiment is to establish a permanent settlement law for a large number of cycles depending on a dynamical parameter that can be determined by the three-dimensional numerical model."], [18, "Linear vs non-linear learning methods A comparative study for forest above ground biomass, estimation from texture analysis of satellite imagesAboveground biomass Estimation Supervised learning Regression Support vector machines Random forests K-nearest neighbor The aboveground biomass estimation is an important question in the scope of Reducing Emission from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD framework of the UNCCC). It is particularly challenging for tropical countries because of the scarcity of accurate ground forest inventory data and of the complexity of the forests. Satellite-borne remote sensing can help solve this problem considering the increasing availability of optical very high spatial resolution images that provide information on the forest structure via texture analysis of the canopy grain. For example, the FOTO (FOurier Texture Ordination) proved relevant for forest biomass prediction in several tropical regions. It uses PCA and linear regression and, in this paper, we suggest applying classification methods such as k-NN (k-nearest neighbors), SVM (support vector machines) and Random Forests to texture descriptors extracted from images via Fourier spectra. Experiments have been carried out on simulated images produced by the software DART (Discrete Anisotropic Radiative Transfer) in reference to information (3D stand mockups) from forests of DRC (Democratic Republic of Congo), CAR (Central African Republic) and Congo. On this basis, we show that some classification techniques may yield a gain in prediction accuracy of 18 to 20%"], [19, "AdaBoost/GA et filtrage particulaire: La vision par ordinateur au service de la s\u00e9curit\u00e9 routi\u00e8reComputer vision Intelligent transportation systems Stop and go ACC Pedestrian detection This thesis presents two ITS applications,which are designed to be installed on a moving vehicle and detect other road users, using a single frontal camera. The two apllications are Stop and Go ACC and Pedestrian impact prediction. The thesis opens by describing the history and current status of the ITS domain. We review several existing systems which represent several approaches and research directions. Among these systems there are ones which are operational or almost operational, and ones which are futuristic. Next we present some novel results in the field of computer vision/machine learning. Thes results are using, and are partly motivated by, the example of pedestrian detection. In particular we present new type of weak-classifiers to be learned by the AdaBoost algorithm, a classifier which is working faster than others and is not dependant of scene lighting conditions. We also present a novel way to collect large high-quality training sets in order to vastly improve the training results. Using thes results, we present a Stop and Go adaptive cruise control (ACC\u00b0. We implemented this application with a set of known image processing algorithms, demonstrating how the combination of several relatively-simple algorithms can yield a reliable system. The application is running in 10 images per second and follows the car in front, while using a motion estimator to detect cut-ins. Our second application is a pedestrian detection and impact prediction application. The system is running in 10 image per second and reliably predict the probability of an impact with a pedestrian in some time frame."], [20, "quantum mathematics for physics -First example : the Lorentz-Einstein tranformationIt is shown that a fundamental unit, denoted by c, naturally arises fromquantum mathematical representations, together with a number of importantformulae."], [21, "b-tagging performance for ATLAS in LHC Run IIThe insertion of the IBL (Insertable B-Layer) allows the ATLAS Experiment to significantly improve the b-tagging performance during the LHC Run-II. As well as the IBL, a significant effort has gone into improving the b-tagging algorithms. The expected performance improvement from both these updates, as well as the first results from commissioning the b-tagging with the new data, will be discussed in detail, together with the impact on physics analysis."], [22, "An error analysis in the algebraic estimation of a noisy sinusoidal signalThe classic example of a noisy sinusoidal signal permits for the first time to derive an error analysis for a new algebraic and non-asymptotic estimation technique. This approach yields a selection of suitable parameters in the estimation procedure, in order to minimize the noise corruption."], [23, "Strengthening mechanisms associated to anisotropic precipitates in an Al-Li-Cu alloy of third generationMechanical properties Strengthening Precipitation The age-hardening AA2198 alloy is mainly used in aeronautic applications. The anisotropic T1 - Al2LiCu phase gives the main contribution to strengthening in this system. The main objective of this study is to understand the strengthening mechanisms in terms of interactions between the dislocations and the T1 plate-like precipitates. The first step consists in the development of a characterization procedure adapted to the T1 phase (characterization of the diameter, thickness and volume fraction of the T1 plates). The thermo-mechanical treatment is adapted in order to vary the T1 parameters independently and the yield strength evolution is systematically measured and that permits the investigation of the relationship between the T1 microstructure and the yield strength variations. The experimental data base that is generated allows testing and improving the existing yield strength models. An energetic approach of the shearing mechanisms is used to model precisely the yield strength evolution for a high number of microstructures. The decrease in yield strength after the peak is solely explained by invoking the shearing mechanism. The investigation of the plasticity phenomenon associated to the T1 phase, with the study of the shear bands and of the work hardening behavior, is the last step of this work. A shearing-to-by-passing transition is found to occur for long-over ageing times."], [24, "Time-frequency analysis by the S transform and interpretation of the laser Doppler flowmetry signals: clinic diagnosis applicationsLaser Doppler flowmetry Time-frequency analysis S transform Feature extraction Singular values decomposition Diagnosis aThe laser Doppler flowmetry (LDF) technique is based on the spectral broadening of monochromatic light, that interacts with moving red blood cells in tissue. The power spectral density of the backscattered light can be processed to yield an estimate of microvascular tissue perfusion in the form of a signal. The primary objective of this work is to explore the information contained in this signal in order to understand the physiological phenomena which appear in the microcirculation and to present solutions of assistance in the diagnosis of corresponding pathologies. The decision problem may be divided into the stages of feature extraction, dimensionality reduction and pattern recognition. This work shows that decision performance depends largely upon the signal representation. The study relies on the S transform, a linear time-frequency representation which overcomes the short time Fourier transform fixed length window limitation and the phase notion in the wavelet transform for non stationary signal analysis. This transform provides a powerful framework for feature extraction, localizing the discriminant information in the laser Doppler flowmetry signal in time and in frequency. This new approach makes possible the analysis of the five characteristic frequencies contained in laser Doppler flowmetry signals and contributes to the apprehension of the signals of reactive hyperaemia. In addition, due to the high dimension of time-frequency representations, its success relies upon an appropriate form of dimensionality reduction. It is shown that the singular values decomposition provides an effective means of concentrating that information which is important, and discarding that which is irrelevant. Its singular vectors reflect the behavior spectral in the time of the various physiological activities present in the laser Doppler flowmetry signal."], [25, "Suction/Injection Effects on the Swirling Flow of a Reiner-Rivlin Fluid near a Rough SurfaceRough wall Reiner-Rivlin fluid B\u00f6dewadt flow The similarity equations for the B\u00f6dewadt flow of a non-Newtonian Reiner-Rivlin fluid, subject to uniform suction/injection, are solved numerically. The conventional no-slip boundary conditions are replaced by corresponding partial slip boundary conditions, owing to the roughness of the infinite stationary disk. The combined effects of surface slip, suction/injection velocity, and cross-viscous parameter on the momentum boundary layer are studied in detail. It is interesting to find that suction dominates the oscillations in the velocity profiles and decreases the boundary layer thickness significantly. On the other hand, injection has opposite effects on the velocity profiles and the boundary layer thickness."], [26, "Palindromic continued fractionsContinued fractions Transcendental numbers Palindromes Subspace theorem In the present work, we investigate real numbers whose sequence of partial quotients enjoys some combinatorial properties involving the notion of palindrome. We provide three new transendence criteria, that apply to a broad class of continued fraction expansions, including expansions with unbounded partial quotients. Their proofs heavily depend on the Schmidt Subspace Theorem."], [27, "Migration profondeur avant sommation en amplitude pr\u00e9serv\u00e9e par extrapolation de forme d'ondeLa migration est une \u00e9tape cl\u00e9 de la cha\u00eene de traitement des donn\u00e9es de sismique r\u00e9flexion. Intervenant apr\u00e8s les phases de pr\u00e9-traitement, et d'estimation du mod\u00e8le de vitesse, elle peut servir de base \u00e0 la caract\u00e9risation litho-sismique du r\u00e9servoir. En effet lorsqu'elle est fa\u00eete avant sommation, en profondeur et en amplitude pr\u00e9serv\u00e9e, elle permet d'obtenir les r\u00e9flectivit\u00e9s du sous-sol en fonction de l'angle d'incidence de l'onde sismique. Une inversion stratigraphique des param\u00e8tres \u00e9lastiques du r\u00e9servoir est alors possible permettant une caract\u00e9risation sismique plus d\u00e9taill\u00e9e du r\u00e9servoir. Jusqu'\u00e0 pr\u00e9sent la migration en amplitude pr\u00e9serv\u00e9e \u00e9tait essentiellement bas\u00e9e sur des techniques de tra\u00e7\u00e9 de rayons, qui h\u00e9las pr\u00e9sentent de r\u00e9elles limitations pour les milieux g\u00e9ologiques complexes caract\u00e9ris\u00e9s par de fortes variations lat\u00e9rales de vitesse. L'utilisation d'approximations n one-way z paraxiales de l'\u00e9quation d'onde permet de s'affranchir de ces limitations puisque, dans le cadre de la migration profondeur, elles fournissent des solutions pr\u00e9cises et robustes pour l'ensemble de la bande de fr\u00e9quences sismiques. En outre elles prennent en compte naturellement les trajectoires multiples induites par des mod\u00e8les de vitesse complexes (en particulier dans le cas des structures salif\u00e8res ). Longtemps p\u00e9nalis\u00e9es par leur co\u00fbt num\u00e9rique dans les applications 3D ces m\u00e9thodes peuvent actuellement \u00eatre appliqu\u00e9es sur donn\u00e9es r\u00e9elles. Elles portent le nom de migration par \u00e9quation d'onde. Sur le plan de la pr\u00e9servation des amplitudes l'\u00e9tude de la migration par \u00e9quation d'onde n'a pas d\u00e9bouch\u00e9 jusqu'\u00e0 pr\u00e9sent sur une formulation aussi aboutie qu'avec l'utilisation de la th\u00e9orie des raies. Dans ce domaine les efforts doivent porter tant sur la propagation num\u00e9rique du champs d'onde, que sur la condition d'imagerie. Mon travail de th\u00e8se porte sur la d\u00e9finition et le d\u00e9veloppement num\u00e9rique d'une m\u00e9thode de migration par \u00e9quation d'onde quantitative \u00e0 2D. Dans un premier temps, j'ai abord\u00e9 l'\u00e9tude de la pr\u00e9servation des amplitudes par l'approximation \"one-way\" paraxiale de l'\u00e9quation des ondes. Je me suis familiaris\u00e9 avec la technique en m'appuyant sur les travaux et les algorithmes d\u00e9velopp\u00e9s \u00e0 l'Institut Fran\u00e7ais du P\u00e9trole. Dans un second temps, j'ai modifi\u00e9 le principe d'imagerie classique, de fa\u00e7on \u00e0 constituer des collections migr\u00e9es en fonction de l'angle de r\u00e9flexion, et \u00e0 retrouver l'information sur la d\u00e9pendance angulaire de la r\u00e9flectivit\u00e9 ou de la perturbation d'imp\u00e9dance. Cela devrait nous permettre de mieux caract\u00e9riser le sous-sol dans le cas de milieux complexes ou les analyses classiques (AVO) ne donnent pas de r\u00e9sultats satisfaisants."], [28, "Rice and Trees: Eradicating shifting cultivation, an abiding policy in LaosNowadays, 40 to 500 million farmers are engaged in shifting cultivation in tropical countries. For more than a century, a prevailing view has disparaged this farming system. Described as primitive and unproductive, it would be the primary cause of deforestation. The study of the agrarian system in Phongsaly, a small region in northern Laos, demonstrated how varied and rational the farmers' practices are. They have become differentiated in the recent history, chiefly because of rising State intervention. Local outputs from Phongsaly are consistent with those of bibliographic review: most criticisms have proven to be unfounded. When shifting cultivation is involved in deforestation, which is not automatic, as it plays only a limited part; commercial logging and pioneer agriculture remain the major causes. Outsiders classically misjudge how complex and logical shifting cultivation systems are. Shifting cultivators generally belong to highland ethnic minorities. Their practices are appraised by lowlanders according to their concerns, methods, and uses they assign to forest and highland. Scientists seldom give a rigorous and objective perspective to the issue and their conclusions too often abound with prejudices. Since smallholder farmers take part in managing the environment, their agriculture deserves to be re-evaluated. Agricultural policies need to be reformed to include the knowledge and experience of farmers in sustainably managing the natural resources. The only efficient course of action for State intervention is to involve the farmers in the decision-making and implementation processes."], [29, "Truth is OneCet article examine la conception \u00ab pluraliste \u00bb de la v\u00e9rit\u00e9 d\u00e9fendue par Crispin Wright, et souligne ses difficult\u00e9s et son flirt dangereux avec le relativisme. On sugg\u00e8re qu'une solution \u00e0 ces difficult\u00e9s, sugg\u00e9r\u00e9e par Wright lui-m\u00eame, pourrait consister dans le \u00ab fonctionnalisme \u00bb au sujet de la v\u00e9rit\u00e9, selon lequel la v\u00e9rit\u00e9 serait une propri\u00e9t\u00e9 formelle \u00ab r\u00e9alis\u00e9e \u00bb de mani\u00e8re multiple dans diff\u00e9rents domaines. Mais cette th\u00e8se en fait n'\u00e9chappe pas non plus aux difficult\u00e9s du pluralisme. On soutient qu'il faut admettre que la v\u00e9rit\u00e9 est une, et non pas plurielle, et une forme de r\u00e9alisme au sujet de la v\u00e9rit\u00e9, fond\u00e9e sur une base \u00e9pist\u00e9mologique. (French)"], [30, "The Automatic News Transcription System: ANTS some Real Time experimentsThis paper presents the recent development of ANTS, the Automatic News Transcription System of LORIA. This system was designed in the framework of ESTER, the French broadcast radio news transcription task evaluation. After describing its different components and some segmentation and recognition results on the ESTER database, we present a number of experiments focusing on the real-time version of ANTS. We evaluate the system with different number of Gaussians, sizes of vocabulary and decoder settings. The non real time version of ANTS yields an overall error rate of 36 % that can be compared to 44.5 % for the real time version."], [31, "Stratified Monte Carlo IntegrationWe analyze a Monte Carlo method using stratified sampling for approximate integration. We focus on integration of non-smooth functions: we consider the indicator function of a Jordan-measurable subset of the $s$-dimensional unit cube $I^s := [0,1)^s$. We prove a bound for the variance and show an improved convergence rate (compared to plain Monte Carlo). When the boundary of the subset is defined by a function on $I^{s-1}$, the variance is estimated by means of the variation of the function. The tightness of the previous bounds is assessed through numerical experiments in dimensions $s=2,3$ and $4$, where we compute sample variances."], [32, "Terror foreign or familiar\u2014pleasure on the edge: translating A Tale of Two Cities into FrenchDickens Translation Translatology Terror Linguistic manipulations History How can the French readers of the French translation of A Tale of Two Cities perceive the characters and facts presented in the novel? There certainly is an aesthetics of suffering quite differently apprehended by the two cultures represented in the novel since the nature of the social and political system the French Revolution imposed on France more than two centuries ago is quite unconsciously integrated into today's society. The horrors of the Terror, which are crudely and inhumanely described in the original have a rather different flavour in translation\u2014maybe because \u201celegant translators\u201d have \u201cbrought something to (their) work besides mere dictionary knowledge\u201d. Let's us take the following example: \u201cAlong the Paris streets, the death-carts rumble, hollow and harsh\u201d / \u201cLe long des rues de Paris, les tombereaux fun\u00e8bres roulent avec fracas\u201d ; in the French version, several lexical markers and several phonological markers (death-carts, rumble, hollow/harsh) are alleviated and more prosaic, the crudeness and frightening tone of the original takes on a more familiar and poetic dimension\u2014the second part of the French sentence can be read as an alexandrine, a distance is created. The novel was first translated in 1861, soon after its English publication, reprinted in the 1870s and 1880s and mostly retranslated and republished one century later in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. As shown in the above quotation, translation cannot be regarded as a mere linguistic mechanism: it owes much of its results to the manipulative art of the translator. The study of some stylistic elements involving rhythm, metaphors and the organization of discourse will help shed light on the diverging perception which English-speaking or French-speaking readers may have of the text, especially as the receptive background of horror as fearsome otherness or horror as an integrated historical fact of the past may influence reading."], [33, "\u201cSymbolic Economies\u201d and the Origin of LanguageOrigin of language Symbolic economies Symbolic forms Ritualized actions Money Language Symbolic values The comparison between language and money is recurrent in Western culture (up to Saussure's famous comparison between linguistic signs and coins). More recently, in the 1970's, some philosophers emphasized the concomitant appearance in ancient Greece of specific philosophical categories, and of monetary exchange using struck coins (e.g. Sohn-Rethel); or described money as a general model for any semiotic process involving the creation of values (Goux). The question of language origin has dramatically evolved in recent years, giving raise to many competing models, none of which however trying to take into account these homologies, first developed in a merely philosophical and sociological perspective. This is what we intend to do, by linking the emergence of language and the emergence of what we call \u201csymbolic economies\u201d. We provisionally define \u201csymbolic economy\u201d as a complex system in which transactions aim at assigning and transferring symbolic values (e.g. values of acts, roles, or even other signs) through a co-emerging semiotic medium. Our guiding intuition is that functions of human languages should be viewed within the social context in which \u201cexodemic\u201d groups co-exist by means of ritualized \u201cprotocols\u201d (gift, exchange, alliance, payment, sanction). All these protocols imply an exchange of symbols like objects, gestures, or (proto)linguistic signs, whose symbolic values stem from their involvement in ritualized actions which, on the other hand, cannot be recognized or achieved without the above mentioned symbols. Although money far postdates language in human history, the use of money reveals social, cognitive and semiotic constraints or resources which presumably are also involved in linguistic activity. The analogy is even more valid if we depart from a strictly utilitarian point of view in economy (Aglietta & Orlean), and a strictly conceptual/referential view, in semantics. Indeed, both money and language provide a \u201cgeneral equivalent\u201d for an open series of occurrences by: (i) elaborating abstract and fictive values in a sensible medium, and (ii) creating a universal reference system, of a fictive character, which regulates all emergent values, including the most basic and individualistic ones. On this viewpoint, the traditional functions of language can be analyzed by analogy to those classically assigned to money (evaluation, diffusion, payment, saving). The analogy between language and money may however turn out to be spurious if we do not take into account: (i) the archeological and anthropological findings showing various types and functions of \u201cmoney\u201d in archaic societies, mostly related to the sacred; (ii) the work in theoretical economy describing the concurrent emergence of different \u201ccurrencies\u201d as a result of a mimetic behavior of agents rather than an application of pre-established values; (iii) the theories in which language activity is primarily considered as a way of evaluating/categorizing actions and roles, and of \u2018buying' social position by affording certain symbolic values. In summary, we (i) describe analogies between functional roles of money and language in human transactions, (ii) present a non-utilitarian \u201csymbolic economy\u201d framework in which such analogies become more effective, (iii) discuss some of the elementary transactions on which this kind of symbolic economy could be based, and (iv) try to clarify the relationship between this speculative model and grammatical categories of human languages (e.g.case roles)."], [34, "Further Remarks on Stabilizing Chains of Integrators by Using Network DelaysChain of integrators Delays Stability Pusieux-Series Sampling period This paper focuses on the closed-loop stability of a chain of integrators in a networked-control setting. More precisely, we are interested in using the network-induced delays as control parameters. Similar to the continuous-time case, we will see that a single delay is not sufficient to stabilize a chain having n integrators, but that n delay blocks are able to stabilize such a chain without being able to guarantee an arbitrary pole placement for the corresponding closed-loop system."], [35, "Study on the natural durability of mixed plywood panels composed the durable and non-durable veneersNowadays, under growing environmental pressure, it is necessary to find alternatives to reduce the environmental impact of chemically treated wood and wood-based panels. In respect to this necessity we have evaluated the natural durability of mixed plywood composed of naturally durable plies (cypress, cedar and chestnut heartwood) and non-durables plies (poplar, beech, cypress and cedar sapwood) against wood destroying fungi (Coriolus versicolor and Coniophora puteana) and termites (Reticulitermes santonensis). The thickness of plies (1.3 and 2.6 mm), the percentage of durable plies and non durable plies (40% and 60%), the number of plies (5 and 9) and finally the modality of integration of durable plies to non durable plies (11 different symmetrical combinations) in each mixed panel were studied as variable factors. Ultrasonic (non destructive) and indentation (semi destructive) methods were assessed to evaluate the presence and the extend of decay in pure and mixed plywood both as rapid methods in comparison with the biological assessment based on mass loss (according to the ENV12038). Shear test was also performed before and after exposition to fungi as a reference mechanical property of plywood in order to evaluate the relationship between the mass loss and the level of shear strength decrease after fungal degradation. The results obtained have shown that mixing durable plies with non durable plies improves the natural durability of plywood against fungi. Nevertheless, the shear test after fungal degradation revealed that the decrease of shear strength in mixed plywoods is closer to the decrease observed for the non durable pure plywoods than for the pure durable plywoods. These results signify that there is a localised attack in the non durable plies of the mixed plywoods. The localised mass loss of non durable plies of mixed plywoods is better correlated to the decrease of shear strength than the classical mass loss (total) of the plywoods. The plywoods the most resistant against fungi were found amongst the different mixed plywoods made of cypress sapwood and heartwood, and some models were found resistant to termite attack as well. The resistant panels to both fungi and termites had durable plies in exterior faces. The presence of intact thick sapwood plies in mixed cypress plywoods shows a protective effect (against termite attack) from the durable plies. The indentation test (the measurement of energy before and after degradation) in comparison with the ultrasonic test (the measurement of velocity before and after degradation) showed the better correlation to the mass loss. In addition the indentation test can also be used to determine the gradient of mass loss and the threshold of rupture when decay takes place in the non durable plies situated under the durable exterior plies."], [36, "Influence of stand structure on understory light distribution. Case of a heterogeneous broadleaved forest on limestones.Light models simulate the distribution of understory lighting from a characterisation of crowns geometry. Our goal was to reduce the quantity of data required. We measured the data set necessary to a light model (tRAYci) in a heterogeneous broadleaved stand. We established relationships between the variables characteristic of the crown and the diameter of the trees at 1.30 m. We developed an algorithm taking competition between crowns for space occupation into account, given only the species of the tree, its diameter at a height of 1.30 m and its position. We compared this reconstruction method (anisotropic) to a simpler method (isotropic), considering the simulation quality of the light distribution obtained. Only the anisotropic approach allowed us to obtain an unbiased simulation of light distribution at the level of the plot. We also tested indices based on the spatial distribution of the basal area, which proved incapable of predicting the light distribution in an unbiased way."], [37, "The MEUST deep sea infrastructure in the Toulon siteThe MEUST (Mediterranean Eurocentre for Underwater Sciences and Technologies) is a permanent deep sea cabled infrastructure currently being deployed off shore of Toulon, France. MEUST is shared between the neutrino physics and astro-physics communities in the context of the European KM3NeT project, and the Environmental Science communities as the West- Ligurian site of the EMSO European network of submarine observatories. The MEUST submarine network has a modular and extendable topology which will allow hosting up to 120 neutrino detection units and to instrument a seafloor area with sea science sensors. The MEUST terrestrial base is located in La Seyne sur Mer near Toulon, where a new building is planned to host the technical activities, including a control room of the infrastructure. The MEUST submarine site has been selected after intensive characterization campaigns conducted in the past years leading to the choice of the site located \u02dc40km offshore of Toulon at a depth of 2500m and 15km west of the Antares site. The full MEUST submarine network has up to 6 nodes connected to the shore by two Main Electro Optical Cables (MEOC). The MEOCs are standard telecommunication cables with optical fibres for data transfer and one electrical conductor for power transfer. The nodes are equipped each with 8 wet mate-able connectors allowing to connect at least 20 neutrino detection units (daisy chained by 4) and a set of environmental instruments, with some redundancy. The power transfer is performed in HV AC with sea return, as for Antares, and provides a usable power of \u02dc10kW on each node (\u02dc1kW/connector). A dedicated control/command system controls the power and optical systems. The data transfer uses Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing (DWDM). The proposed talk will focus on the design and the status of the infrastructure with the first lessons learnt from the ongoing deployments."], [38, "Composants logiciels et algorithmes de minimisation exacte d'\u00e9nergies d\u00e9di\u00e9s au traitement des imagesCette th\u00e8se traite principalement de l'optimisation exacte et rapide d'\u00e9nergies utilis\u00e9es pour r\u00e9soudre des probl\u00e8mes de traitement des images ou de vision par ordinateur. En fonction du type d'\u00e9nergies consid\u00e9r\u00e9es, diff\u00e9rentes approches sont retenues. Le calcul de coupures minimales, vu comme technique d'optimisation, est la souche commune aux m\u00e9thodes d'optimisation propos\u00e9es dans ce manuscrit. Nous pr\u00e9sentons tout d'abord un algorithme de minimisation exacte de la variation totale avec une attache aux donn\u00e9es mod\u00e9lis\u00e9e par une fonction convexe. L'id\u00e9e de notre approche consiste \u00e0 reformuler cette \u00e9nergie avec des champs de Markov binaires associ\u00e9s \u00e0 chaque ensemble de niveaux d'une image. Nous g\u00e9n\u00e9ralisons ensuite cette approche aux cas des \u00e9nergies dites \"nivell\u00e9es\". Une seconde g\u00e9n\u00e9ralisation, diff\u00e9rente de la pr\u00e9c\u00e9dente, consid\u00e8re le cas o\u00f9 les termes de r\u00e9gularisation sont convexes. Nous pr\u00e9sentons ensuite un algorithme original et rapide pour le cas des mod\u00e8les dont les attaches aux donn\u00e9es et les termes de r\u00e9gularisation sont des fonctions convexes. Le cas particulier de la variation totale avec une attache aux donn\u00e9es de type $L^1$ est \u00e9tudi\u00e9 en d\u00e9tail. Nous montrons en particulier que sa minimisation conduit \u00e0 un filtre invariant par changement de contraste. Cette invariance est une propri\u00e9t\u00e9 fondamentale des filtres morphologiques. Ce mod\u00e8le est alors utilis\u00e9 pour d\u00e9finir un filtre morphologique vectoriel auto-dual."], [39, "ECODESIGN INTEGRATION IN SMEs - PROPOSAL FOR A KNOW-HOW APPROPRIATION METHOD FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT DESIGNAtep Change management Ecodesign Environmental analysis Integration method Maieco Organizational learning Products SMEs Typological analysis The rising societal concerns about environmental issues result in particular in an increasing lawful pressure on the industrial world. The products from the consumer society are at the origin of the generalized phenomenon of degradation of the environment. For this reason, ecodesign represents for the companies the \"natural\" process to assume their role in the safeguarding of the resources and the environment. However, the european state of the art on ecodesign in the companies shows that the taking into account of the environmental constraints in the product design, although industrial reality, is still an emergent issue. Because of the volume of products they represent, and of the difficulties they have to integrate all new constraint that they do not consider strategic, SMEs must constitute a priority target for the integration of ecodesign. The problems of ecodesign integration in the companies find its origin, on the one hand in an environmental cultural gap, on the other hand in the fact that, the ecodesign tools having been developed apart from the industrial world, the organizational aspects of integration were not considered. We thus propose in this study an ecodesign integration method - the MAIECO method - allowing, through an organizational learning process, an organizational change management in the company, and aiming at the appropriation by this one of its own ecodesign approach. This method lies in particular on an original tool for environmental analysis of the products - the ATEP tool - allowing the participating members of the company to acquire the minimal basis of environmental knowledge during the analysis phase of the ecodesign process."], [40, "Conference helps assess online usage International Symposium: Academic Online Resources: Assessment and Usage. Lille (France), 26-27 November 2009Usage assessment Usage statistics Scientific information Lille hosted the first international conference on digital usage assessment in France. 160 LIS professionals and scientists from five continents met for two days on the scientific campus of the Lille University and discussed usage-related approaches to academic digital libraries."], [41, "Optimisation of the bending process of high strength low alloy sheet mtetalBending Damage Evolution strategies FE simulation Moving least square method Neural networks Optimisation Response surfaces Safety parts Shock Unbending Anchorage parts for automobile safety belts and other safety parts must resist shock loadings without breaking. They are typically made from High Strength Low Alloy sheet metal and fabricated by blanking and bending operations. The study of their behaviour during fabrication and their resulting mechanical properties has been studied experimentally and numerically. The experimental results were used to validate the numerical simulation. The resulting material damage is taken into by user subroutines in the Abaqus Standard finite element code. Damage is one of the objective functions intervening in the shape optimisation of the safety parts as well as the optimisation of the bending process. This study is based on the use of \"the design of experiments technique\", the approximated representation by response surfaces and the use of artificial neural networks. The objective functions represent the maximum punch loads, the maximum stresses and maximum damage during the bending operation. For unbending operations, representative of dynamic choc loadings, the objective functions are again the maximum unbending load, the maximum stresses and maximum damage. The optimisation is done by the moving least square method, evolution strategies and a global calculation method. The parameters that represent the die radius and the clearance between the sheet and tool are optimised with the objective to obtain the most resistant safety part possible."], [42, "Brain histamine and schizophrenia: potential therapeutic applications of H3-receptor inverse agonists studied with BF2.649.Histamine H3 receptor Inverse agonist/antagonist BF2649 Sleep/wake Schizophrenia Locomotor activity BF2.649, a high affinity and selective non-imidazole histamine H(3)-receptor antagonist/inverse agonist, was found to easily enter the brain after oral administration to mice: it displayed a ratio of brain/plasma levels of about 25 when considering either C(max) or AUC values. At low oral doses (2.5-20mg/kg), it elicited in mice a dose-dependent wakening effect accompanied with a shift towards high frequency waves of the EEG, a sign of cortical activation. DOPAC/dopamine ratios were enhanced in the prefrontal cortex but not in the striatum, indicating a selective activation of a sub-population of dopaminergic neurons. BF2.649 showed significant inhibitory activity in several mouse models of schizophrenia. It reduced locomotor hyperactivity elicited by methamphetamine or dizolcipine without significantly affecting spontaneous locomotor activity when administered alone. It also abolished the apomorphine-induced deficit in prepulse inhibition. These observations suggest that H(3)-receptor inverse agonists/antagonists deserve attention as a novel class of antipsychotic drugs endowed with pro-cognitive properties."], [43, "Introducing Unobserved Heterogeneity in Earnings MobilityEarnings mobility Unobserved heterogeneity Segmentation State dependence Dynamic multinomial logit This paper introduces and describes unobserved heterogeneity in earnings quintiles transition matrices in the US. Unobserved heterogeneity is found to play a crucial role in earnings mobility. Each individual is attracted, given his characteristics, towards a specific zone of the distribution. At the stationnary equilibrium, the earnings quintiles distribution is thus segmented. Interestingly, while the level of earnings mobility has remained quite stable since 1970, the width of these zones has decreased, such that this segmentation was more pronounced in the 80's and the 90's than in the 70's, especially in the middle of the quintiles distribution."], [44, "Controlling the occupation time of an exponential martingaleWe consider the problem of maximizing the expected amount of time an exponential martingale spends above a constant threshold up to a finite time horizon. We assume that at any time the volatility of the martingale can be chosen to take any value between \u03c3 1 and \u03c3 2 , where 0 < \u03c3 1 < \u03c3 2. The optimal control consists in choosing the minimal volatility \u03c3 1 when the process is above the threshold, and the maximal volatility if it is below. We give a rigorous proof using classical verification and provide integral formulas for the maximal expected occupation time above the threshold."], [45, "Remediation of specific language impairment using PLAYONLanguage remediation Dysphasia PLAYON is a computer tool desined to help children with reading acquisition difficulties. Its goal is to improve the use of the phonological loop through exercises in phonological perception (phonological differentiation, rhyme differentiation). Although it is not its main purpose, the software can also be used to help children with oral language difficulties as there are strong visual cues coupled to each sound to be differentiated, so correct response does not rely on correct visual decoding of letters or written syllables only. The goal of the current work was to determine if PLAYON could be efficiently used to help children with strong oral language difficulties. Seventeen such children were selected in a centre for language remediation to participate in the study. This population was split in two, with eight children corresponding to the control group and the other nine children corresponding to the test group. Both groups were followed in the remediation centre so that all children underwent a systematic language remediation program. In addition to this program, the test group had special sessions using the PLAYON software once a week for four months. A full battery of language tests was administered to all children before and after the specific remediation program. Results showed that all children improved between pre-testing and post-testing. A small difference was found between the control group and test group: non-word and regular word reading was identical at pre-test, but was better in the test group at post-test. However, other differences forbid to demonstrate that the remediation software was more efficient than the other remediation procedures. The main results were that the software did not impair the children's progress and proved to be easy to use and very user friendly for the children."], [46, "Is Basque an agglutinative language?Demonstratives Articles Grammaticalization Agglutination Locative case Plural local cases Ergative plural Genitive plural In this paper I offer a reconstruction of some aspects of the diachrony of basque declension, especially adressing problems related to the locative singular case, local plural cases and genitive and ergative plural cases. I also focus on the issue of how this reconstruction fits with the view of Basque as an agglutinative language."], [47, "Adaptive pixel/patch-based synthesis for texture compressionThis paper presents an adaptive scheme for synthesizing missing textured regions. In synthesis-based compression approaches, large textures are removed at encoder side and filled in at decoder side. This work proposes a synthesizer in which both complementary pixel-based and patch-based approaches are used. According to results shown by synthesis algorithms, patch-based and pixel-based approaches are efficient with different kinds of texture. Two algorithms are adapted to the region synthesis context: the sample patch is built from surrounding texture and potential anchor blocks inside the removed region; the scan order depends on a confidence map in order to take advantage of the designed patch; DCT-descriptors provide the minimum size of matching window which is a required parameter for both synthesizers. Finally an \"a posteriori\" gradient based assessor enables the synthesizer to switch between algorithms."], [48, "Macroscopic carbon nanofibers for use as photocatalyst support.Photocatalysis Morphology Microstructure Catalyst support Carbon nanofiber To reduce the drawbacks related to the use of powders or immobilized catalysts in gas- and liquid-phase applications, a new material for the use as photocatalyst support was obtained by chemical vapor decomposition at 700 8C of an ethane\u2013hydrogen mixture over a woven glass microfiber supported nickel catalyst, consequently leading to carbon nanofibers with macroscopic shaping, consisting in woven glass microfibers supporting a dense network of entangled 40 nm diameter carbon nanofibers. This material could be directly used after synthesis without any subsequent purification treatment due to the high yield and totally selective carbon nanofiber production. This shape memory design results in the direct use of the carbon nanofiber\u2013woven glass microfiber composite as support without any post-synthesis shaping. The presence of hydrophilic oxygenated groups located at the outer surface of the carbon nanofibers allowed the sol\u2013gel preparation of a woven glass microfiber\u2013carbon nanofiber supported TiO2 (20 wt.%) catalyst, using tetraisopropoxide as precursor. This new photocatalyst was totally stable under UV irradiation."], [49, "Analytical solution to the Riemann problem of 1D elastodynamics with general constitutive lawsUnder the hypothesis of small deformations, the equations of 1D elastodynamics write as a 2 \u00d7 2 hyperbolic system of conservation laws. Here, we study the Riemann problem for convex and nonconvex constitutive laws. In the convex case, the solution can include shock waves or rarefaction waves. In the nonconvex case, compound waves must also be considered. In both convex and nonconvex cases, a new existence criterion for the initial velocity jump is obtained. Also, admissibility regions are determined. Lastly, analytical solutions are completely detailed for various constitutive laws (hyperbola, tanh and polynomial), and reference test cases are proposed."], [50, "Linear Lattice Boltzmann Schemes for Acoustic: parameters choices and isotropy propertiesLattice Boltzmann schemes Isotropy Formal calculus Taylor expansion method In this paper, we investigate the numerous parameters choices for linear lattice Boltzmann schemes according to the definition of the isotropic order given in \\cite{ADG11}. This property---written in a general framework including all of the \\ddqq schemes---can be read through a group operation. It implies some relations on the parameters of the scheme (equilibrium states and relaxation times) that give rigorous methodology to select them according to the desired order of isotropy. For acoustic applications in two spaces dimensions (namely \\ddqn and \\ddqt schemes) this methodology is used to propose a full description of the sets of parameters that involve isotropy of order $m$ ($m\\in\\{1,2,3,5\\}$ for \\ddqn and $m\\in\\{1,2\\}$ for \\ddqt). We then propose numerical illustrations for the \\ddqn scheme."], [51, "Strichartz estimates for the wave equation on Riemannian symmetric manifolds.Symmetric spaces Strichartz Wave equation Symmetric spaces We prove Strichartz type estimates for solutions of the homogeneous wave equation on Riemannian symmetric spaces. Our results generalize those of Ginibre and Velo."], [52, "Exploitation socio-\u00e9conomique de la mod\u00e9lisation souterraine du transfert des nitrates \u00e0 l'\u00e9chelle du bassin de la SeineAvec les lois sur l'eau de 1964 et 1992, la France s'est dot\u00e9e d'une gestion int\u00e9gr\u00e9e et d\u00e9centralis\u00e9e de la ressource en eau, organis\u00e9e autour de six bassins hydrographiques. Sans remettre en cause les fondements de cette organisation, la Directive Cadre sur l'Eau (DCE), adopt\u00e9e le 22 d\u00e9cembre 2000, renforce cette gestion en fixant des objectifs environnementaux planifi\u00e9s, en l'organisant au sein de sous entit\u00e9s hydrographiques, les masses d'eau, et en pr\u00f4nant l'utilisation de l'analyse \u00e9conomique. D\u00e8s 2009, les Agences de l'Eau doivent d\u00e9finir un plan de gestion fixant les objectifs \u00e0 atteindre en 2015, premi\u00e8re \u00e9ch\u00e9ance de la DCE, et un programme de mesures n\u00e9cessaires \u00e0 leur r\u00e9alisation. Parmi les objectifs de reconqu\u00eate de la qualit\u00e9 des eaux, la r\u00e9duction des contaminations nitriques des ressources en eau souterraine du bassin de la Seine constitue un des grands enjeux auxquels doivent faire face les gestionnaires. La principale source de cette contamination est une pollution diffuse d'origine agricole \u00e9tendue \u00e0 l'ensemble du bassin. Depuis plusieurs ann\u00e9es, des efforts ont d\u00e9j\u00e0 \u00e9t\u00e9 initi\u00e9s en instaurant la mise en place de mesures agro-environnementales. Mais en raison de l'efficacit\u00e9 partielle de ce type de mesure et des temps de r\u00e9ponse souvent longs des aquif\u00e8res, on est en droit de se demander si ce type de mesures suffira \u00e0 remplir l'objectif de bon \u00e9tat chimique des eaux souterraines \u00e0 l'horizon 2015. La premi\u00e8re \u00e9tape de notre travail a donc consist\u00e9 en une exploitation prospective du mod\u00e8le agro-hydrologique MODSUR-STICS-NEWSAM, d\u00e9velopp\u00e9 dans le cadre du programme PIREN-Seine pour simuler l'impact des pollutions diffuses azot\u00e9es d'origine agricole sur les trois principaux aquif\u00e8res du bassin de la Seine. Sur la base d'un recensement des pratiques agricoles observ\u00e9es \u00e0 l'\u00e9chelle de grandes r\u00e9gions agricoles sur la p\u00e9riode 1992-1998, deux sc\u00e9narios ont \u00e9t\u00e9 \u00e9labor\u00e9s: continuit\u00e9 de ces pratiques en \"laisser-faire\" et application de mesures agro-environnementales. L'\u00e9volution de la m\u00e9diane de la distribution des concentrations mesur\u00e9es en nitrates, indice statistique caract\u00e9risant chaque aquif\u00e8re, permet d'estimer l'impact des mesures \u00e0 diverses \u00e9ch\u00e9ances. Par confrontation entre donn\u00e9es simul\u00e9es avec donn\u00e9es observ\u00e9es sur une p\u00e9riode de 30 ans, le risque de d\u00e9passement d'une valeur seuil est \u00e9valu\u00e9 pour chaque cellule du mod\u00e8le et agr\u00e9g\u00e9 \u00e0 l'\u00e9chelle des masses d'eau souterraines du bassin. Chaque masse d'eau peut alors \u00eatre caract\u00e9ris\u00e9e par sa probabilit\u00e9 de franchissement des seuils de concentration de 25, 40, 50 et 100 mgNO3/l. La seconde partie de ce m\u00e9moire a pour objectif de mettre en \u0153uvre l'exploitation socio-\u00e9conomique des r\u00e9sultats du mod\u00e8le en d\u00e9terminant les co\u00fbts et les b\u00e9n\u00e9fices attendus des mesures agricoles pr\u00e9ventives. Les surco\u00fbts support\u00e9s par les agriculteurs tiennent compte des variations de rendements simul\u00e9s par STICS et des co\u00fbts imputables \u00e0 la mise en place des mesures. L'\u00e9valuation des b\u00e9n\u00e9fices se limite \u00e0 l'estimation des dommages \u00e9vit\u00e9s pour la production domestique d'eau potable depuis les ressources en eau souterraine. Deux m\u00e9thodes ont \u00e9t\u00e9 employ\u00e9es. La premi\u00e8re est bas\u00e9e sur l'approche de R.L. Raucher appliqu\u00e9e \u00e0 l'ensemble du bassin en supposant qu'un traitement curatif syst\u00e9matique des eaux brutes est mis en \u0153uvre d\u00e8s que la probabilit\u00e9 de d\u00e9passement du seuil de 50 mgNO3/l devient trop grande. La seconde approche simule \u00e0 l'aide s'un syst\u00e8me multi-agents (SMA), le comportement des unit\u00e9s de gestion et d'exploitation (UGE) face \u00e0 une pollution av\u00e9r\u00e9e de leur ressource. Ce mod\u00e8le, baptis\u00e9 WATER-RUSH, est appliqu\u00e9 sur plusieurs d\u00e9cennies au territoire de trois masses d'eau du bassin de la Seine couvrant 612 UGE, soit 1 027 communes. Cet outil permet de tester les diff\u00e9rentes solutions pouvant \u00eatre adopt\u00e9es par les UGE suivant un crit\u00e8re de moindre co\u00fbt et la prise en compte des conditions locales d'exploitation: m\u00e9lange au sein du r\u00e9seau, approfondissement des captages, traitement des eaux brutes, abandon et recherche de nouvelle ressource intra ou extra UGE. Sur cette base, le surco\u00fbt de chaque solution est calcul\u00e9 annuellement sur toute la p\u00e9riode simul\u00e9e et rapport\u00e9 au m\u00e8tre cube produit."], [53, "Constraint-based Ground contact handling in Humanoid Robotics SimulationSimulation Ground-contact Humanoid Robotics This paper presents a method for resolving contact in dynamic simulations of articulated figures. It is intended for humanoids with polygonal feet and incorporates Coulomb friction exactly. The proposed technique is based on a constraint selection paradigm. Its implementation offers an exact mode which guarantees correct behavior, as well as an efficiency optimized mode which sacrifices accuracy for a tightly bounded computational burden, thus facilitating batch simulations or the use of highly detailed foot models. The method has been applied to the simulation of two humanoid robots, CB and Hoap-2, and validated with respect to human and robot motions recorded in reality and in simulation. The friction parameters of contact have also been established empirically."], [54, "Towards an Americanization of French Metropolitan Areas ?Analyse des transformations socio-politiques des 42 aires urbaines fran\u00e7aises de plus de 200.000 habitants dans le cadre de l'Observatoire International des M\u00e9tropoles dirig\u00e9 par Vincent Hoffmann-Martinot (CERVL-CNRS/ IEP Bordeaux) et Jefferey Sellers (USC, Los Angeles). On a assist\u00e9 depuis surtout les ann\u00e9es 1970 \u00e0 une extension continue des aires urbaines dont la croissance a profit\u00e9 surtout aux communes p\u00e9riurbaines au d\u00e9triment des villes centres et de leurs banlieues imm\u00e9diates. Le mod\u00e8le fran\u00e7ais d'\u00e9talement urbain partage des caract\u00e9ristiques communes avec le mod\u00e8le des aires m\u00e9tropolitaines am\u00e9ricaines tant dans ses causes qu'\u00e0 travers ses cons\u00e9quences. Ainsi, alors que la suburbanisation des ann\u00e9es 1950-60 a \u00e9t\u00e9 largement guid\u00e9e et favoris\u00e9e par des programmes \u00e9tatiques de desserrement des villes-centres (politique des grands ensembles, cr\u00e9ation des villes nouvelles dans la r\u00e9gion parisienne, ZUP), le mouvement amorc\u00e9 \u00e0 parti des ann\u00e9es 1980 correspond, comme aux Etats-Unis, non pas \u00e0 une politique top-down mais \u00e0 des strat\u00e9gies beaucoup plus priv\u00e9es et individualis\u00e9es. Pour des raisons \u00e0 la fois \u00e9conomiques et li\u00e9es \u00e0 leurs am\u00e9nit\u00e9s historiques et culturelles, les villes-centres demeurent cependant en France plus qu'aux Etats-Unis des p\u00f4les d'attraction forts qui ont emp\u00each\u00e9 un mouvement massif de fuite des classes moyennes vers la p\u00e9riph\u00e9rie. Le mod\u00e8le urbain fran\u00e7ais demeure donc plus monocentrique."], [55, "Combining Stereo and Atmospheric Veil Depth Cues for 3D ReconstructionStereo reconstruction serves many outdoor applications, and thus sometimes faces foggy weather. The quality of the reconstruction by state of the art algorithms is then degraded as contrast is reduced with the distance because of scattering. However, as shown by defogging algorithms from a single image, fog provides an extra depth cue in the gray level of far away objects. Our idea is thus to take advantages of both stereo and atmospheric veil depth cues to achieve better stereo reconstructions in foggy weather. To our knowledge, this subject has never been investigated earlier by the computer vision community. We thus propose a Markov Random Field model of the stereo reconstruction and defogging problem which can be optimized iteratively using the \u03b1-expansion algorithm. Outputs are a dense disparity map and an image where contrast is restored. The proposed model is evaluated on synthetic images. This evaluation shows that the proposed method achieves very good results on both stereo reconstruction and defogging compared to standard stereo reconstruction and single image defogging."], [56, "Viabilist and tychastic approaches to guaranteed ALM problemThis study reconsiders the problem of hedging a liability by a portfolio made of a riskless asset and an underlying."], [57, "Selection of a Global Set of GMPEs for the GEM-PEER Global GMPEs ProjectSeismic hazard assessment Tectonic regionalization Attenuation relations Global Earthquake Model Ground motion prediction equations Ground-motion prediction equations (GMPEs) relate a ground-motion parameter (e.g. peak ground acceleration) to a set of explanatory variables describing the source, wave propagation path and site conditions. In the past five decades many hundreds of GMPEs for the prediction of PGA and linear elastic response spectral ordinates have been published. An accompanying paper discusses the pre-selection of GMPEs undertaken within the framework of the Global Earthquake Model (GEM) Global GMPEs project, coordinated by the Pacific Earthquake Engineering Research Center (PEER). Here, we discuss the following step undertaken to reduce the long list of pre-selected models down to a more manageable number for global hazard assessments. The procedure followed, consisting of an examination of the multi-dimensional (e.g. magnitude, distance and structural period) predicted ground-motion space in various ways and published quantitative tests of the GMPEs against observational data not used for their derivation, is discussed and illustrated for subduction zones."], [58, "Importance of an evolutive approach for the study of blological invasions. The example of ragweed invasion in the Rhone valleyBiological invasions have major ecological and economic consequences. Demographic, ecological and genetic mechanisms involved in bioinvasions are well known, but predicting invasions is still impossible. Approaches exploring the ecological characteristics of invaders or invaded environment do not converge to a unifying pattern. Here, we support an alternate, evolutionary approach that investigates two paradoxes: (1) How can some species succeed in an environment different from the one they are adapted to, sometimes displacing native species that should a priori be more adapted to the local conditions? And (2) how can exotic species adapt so rapidly to new conditions despite founder effects? North American common ragweed (Asteraceae) is an invasive species in the Rh\u00f4ne valley in France. This weed poses major health problems since its pollen is a strong allergen. To solve the two paradoxes, we conducted different studies comparing French invasive and North American native populations. We found that French populations may be advantaged by an herbivore pressure release. However, we detected no adaptation consecutive to this enemy release. Moreover, we showed that French populations were more diverse than North American ones, using microsatellites markers that were developed for this study. Introductions from multiple source populations seem to have limited founder effects. Finally, we propose a theoretical evolutionary framework that distinguishes three invasion types: those that require no change in environment or species, those that arise as a consequence of an environmental change and those that result from species adaptation."], [59, "A multiplicative filter for GLMAV attitude estimationIn this paper the authors investigate the problem of attitude estimation applied to the Gun Launched Micro Aerial Vehicle (GLMAV), using low cost sensors. The main contribution of the paper consists in the design of a sliding window filter for quaternion estimation. The proposed approach is considered in an EKF framework in order to ensure a better robustness to external perturbations. Finally, high performances of the filter are shown through numerical simulations."], [60, "Design of a shared-memory model for CAPECheckpointing Aided Parallel Execution (CAPE) is the paradigm we developed to use checkpointing techniques to automatically run parallel programs on distributed-memory architectures. Two versions of CAPE have been developed and tested. The first one was based on complete checkpoints and has proved the feasibility of the paradigm but did not have good performance [1]. The second one based on incremental checkpoints improved performance a lot and made it comparable with MPI similar programs [2]. However, both versions are applicable only to problems containing parallel regions that verify the Bernstein's conditions. In this case data in parallel regions are processed independently in each parallel thread and result are combined at the end of each region. To overcome this restriction, two main tracks have been investigated: the first one consists in implementing a shared-memory model and the second one in processing all requirements of OpenMP data-sharing clauses and directives. In this paper, we present the design of a shared-memory model based on the Home-based Lazy Release Consistency model and the algorithm to implement it"], [61, "Fem1a is a mitochondrial protein up-regulated upon ischemia-reperfusion injury.Various expression studies have shown a preferential muscle expression of the mouse Fem1a gene, but no data is available on the subcellular localization of the corresponding protein. Here, using a specific antibody, we show that Fem1a is expressed preferentially in cardiac muscle, brain and liver. Moreover, using immunofluorescence and electron microscopy, as well as biochemical assays, we demonstrate that Fem1a is localized within mitochondria of C2C12 myoblasts and cardiac muscle cells. Finally, we show that the expression of Fem1a, which is a cellular partner of the EP4 receptor for prostaglandin E(2), is increased in mouse hearts after myocardial infarction."], [62, "The development of non-literal competence: Preliminary observations on overextensions.This talk aimed at presenting preliminary observations on the use of non-literal sequences by French intermediate learners of English. Two groups of thirty students -majoring in French literature and Communication Studies- were asked to write essays as assessments for a required English class. Six types of non-literal sequences were identified in the essays -overextensions, L1 transfers, personifications, comparisons, idioms and metaphors. A special focus on word overextension was given (cf. \"we loose people who could be our friends\" for miss out on, or \"je d\u00e9shabille la banane\" for \u00e9plucher; Duvignau, 2002: 142). Overextensions refer to a particular trend in language acquisition which consists in using a word to refer to items, actions or concepts beyond their usual scope of denotation or \"for a broader range of referents than is conventional in [adult] usage\" (Rescorla, 1979: 321). They relate to the learners' sheer language manipulation and, therefore, to the learners' idiosyncrasy. The nature, the -linguistic, conceptual and cultural- characteristics and the functions of these overextensions were studied. Then, we wondered whether they could be treated as preliminary signs of non-literal competence. The results revealed that they were numerous in the learners' essays, and that they were largely used to respond to a developing lexicon and difficulties to put it into use. This is in line with previous observations and research studies on early language development (Bassano, 2000; Duvignau, 2002; Clark, 1993). An interesting parallel between L1 acquisition, both from theoretical and methodological perspectives, was thus drawn."], [63, "Etude mol\u00e9culaire et isotopique en deut\u00e9rium de la mati\u00e8re organique insoluble des chondrites carbon\u00e9esLes chondrites carbon\u00e9es peuvent contenir jusqu'\u00e0 4% en masse de carbone, principalement pr\u00e9sent sous la forme d'une fraction organique insoluble (MOI) enrichie en deut\u00e9rium par rapport aux \u00e9chantillons organiques terrestres. Cet enrichissement a \u00e9t\u00e9 interpr\u00e9t\u00e9 comme la signature de processus interstellaires. La MOI est constitu\u00e9e d'unit\u00e9s aromatiques assez petites (de 2 \u00e0 3 cycles contigus) reli\u00e9es entre elles par des cha\u00eenes aliphatiques courtes et ramifi\u00e9es. La MOI d'Orgueil et de Murchison a \u00e9t\u00e9 \u00e9tudi\u00e9e par des d\u00e9gradations thermique et chimique, ainsi que par spectroscopie. Il appara\u00eet \u00e0 travers les donn\u00e9es r\u00e9colt\u00e9es que les cha\u00eenes aliphatiques contiennent moins de 7 carbones et qu'elles sont tr\u00e8s ramifi\u00e9es. Par ailleurs, elles peuvent contenir des fonctions \u00e9ther et ester. Ces cha\u00eenes peuvent lier deux ou trois unit\u00e9s aromatiques entre elles. Les cha\u00eenes aliphatiques non liantes (avec une extr\u00e9mit\u00e9 libre) sont plus courtes: moins de 3 carbones. Les donn\u00e9es acquises nous ont aussi permis de montrer que l'azote \u00e9tait contenu dans des h\u00e9t\u00e9rocycles. Cette observation, ainsi qu'une comparaison de donn\u00e9es isotopiques, implique qu'il n'y a pas de lien g\u00e9n\u00e9tique entre la MOI et les acides amin\u00e9s pr\u00e9sents dans la fraction soluble des m\u00e9t\u00e9orites. Ceci n'exclut pas que d'autres classes de compos\u00e9s solubles puissent d\u00e9river de la MOI par alt\u00e9ration hydrothermale sur le corps parent, ce qui indiquerait une origine complexe pour la fraction soluble. Le rapport isotopique D/H des briques \u00e9l\u00e9mentaires de la MOI d'Orgueil, obtenues par pyrolyse et d\u00e9gradation chimique, a \u00e9t\u00e9 interpr\u00e9t\u00e9 en consid\u00e9rant la macromol\u00e9cule avant sa d\u00e9gradation. Les r\u00e9sultats montrent que la MOI est un produit solaire et qu'elle s'est enrichie en D \u00e0 la p\u00e9riph\u00e9rie de la n\u00e9buleuse protosolaire sous des conditions proches du milieu interstellaire. Cette conclusion est majeure pour la MOI, qui a pu \u00eatre la plus grosse partie de la mati\u00e8re organique abiotique sur la Terre primitive."], [64, "Anonymous Graph Exploration without Collision by Mobile RobotsDistributed algorithm Colllision Mutual exclusion constraint Robot Synchronous message-passing system Considering autonomous mobile robots moving on a finite anonymous graph, this paper focuses on the Constrained Perpetual Graph Exploration problem (CPGE). That problem requires each robot to perpetually visit all the vertices of the graph, in such a way that no vertex hosts more than one robot at a time, and each edge is traversed by at most one robot at a time. The paper states an upper bound k on the number of robots that can be placed in the graph while keeping CPGE solvability. To make the impossibility result as strong as possible (no more than k robots can be initially placed in the graph), this upper bound is established under a strong assumption, namely, there is an omniscient daemon that is able to coordinate the robots movements at each round of the synchronous system. Interestingly, this upper bound is related to the topology of the graph. More precisely, the paper associates with each graph a labeled tree that captures the paths that have to be traversed by a single robot at a time (as if they were a simple edge). The length of the longest of these labeled paths reveals to be the key parameter to determine the upper bound k on the number of robots."]]